Spring Boot Actuator provides health checkups,
auditing, metrics gathering, and HTTP tracing by exposing various
HTTP or JMX endpoints you can interact with.
The simplest way to enable of these features is to add a dependency
in the POM file for spring‑boot‑starter‑actuator.
Let's see the Actuator endpoints in action.
Let's look at enabling Actuator. I've opened the code for
module 8 and navigated to the Maven POM file.
Let's take a look at that.
The dependency that we need for the Actuator is found at the very bottom on
lines 54 through 57, and it is the spring‑boot‑starter‑actuator.
When we add this dependency,
we automatically get a list of useful endpoints that help
monitor and manage the application.
I've deployed the application, so let's take a look at pulling up this endpoint.
So the endpoint is localhost:8080/actuator. And this shows a list of all of
the available endpoints via Actuator, and there are several.
Let's look at these endpoints in more detail.
Health is enabled.
Notice it returns the status of UP, so health provides basic
information about the application's health.
There's also actuator/info.
This is enabled by default.
It displays general information about your
application obtained from build files.
There are loggers, metrics, and mappings.
Since endpoints may contain sensitive information,
most of them are turned off by default,
and I did turn them on using the applications.properties file, and there's a
setting here on line 9, management.endpoints.web.exposure.include. So here I
listed the list of endpoints to include info,
health, metrics, loggers, beans, and mappings.
So let's go back.
There's also one called metrics. So this endpoint shows
several useful metrics, contains information like the JVM
memory used, system CPU usage, open files, and more.
And so, you can pick one of these and obtain more detail about it.
So just at the end of this URL, you paste it and it gives you more detail.
There's also logging information, so click on actuator/loggers,
and it just shows the application logs and also lets
you change the log level at runtime. It's a very neat feature.